Feasibility Study Worksheet


Step 1 – Idea Exploration, Identification and Assessment

Describe the business idea or concept (filling an unmet need in the marketplace with a new product or service, providing an existing product/service in a new form, delivering a product/service better or cheaper than competitors, etc.)



Providing an existing service in a new form and style and making the product cheaper and more easily accessible with customisation, than competitors 
 
Im making a website used by employers and managers, who make work rosters, this can be difficult in my experience as its hard to keep track of everyones availibilities and holidays, also staying on budget with wage as each employee earns a difference wage and has different talents needed for specific day. 



What is the “pain” that is being ‘cured’ with this product or service? (An idea is only viable, if people are willing to pay /download or use what it provides)

Time scheduling pains, organisation, going over budget with wages and not getting the right people working at the right time as everyone has their own skills. All of these are customizable with each worker profile and will come up when choosing an option for workers rosters  


What are the features and benefits of the product(s) or service? 
Easily accessing schedules of employee so the employer can make rosters based on their availabities

What is the Business Model?  (How will the business make money?)

Ads that will generate money – not too much though as it may anger customers  
Free trial for 3 months- then pay monthly or annually subscriptions 



What is the Unique Selling Proposition? (Why will the market buy from this business? More value? Better? Unique? Lower cost? Quality? Unique? Faster? )


 Better quality and more easily accessible 
No cost, only ads, there can be a premium option for money 
Customizable, show only options you want 





Step 2 – Determine Markets (Who will buy the product? Are there enough customers?)


Who are the target Markets for the Products or Services: (Who will buy the product or service? How often? Why will they buy it? Is the market big enough to sustain this product?)


	employees wether small or big business’, this product will be used weekly so it will definitely be sustainable

	the market is big enough as everyone has their own schedule and roster work shifts, they’ll need to work out their hours in every work envirnomment you usually get paid per hour 



What competitors are in the same space? (Who are the main competitors? What other similar products are in the market? What are the strengths & weaknesses of competitors? What are their features?)

Findmyshift https://www.findmyshift.com/ie/your-teams - offers a lot of different services like analytics, time off management and payrolls 

https://www.justworkshours.com/ - calculate hours clock in and out - messaging platform for colleges to communicate, bad factors are design green colour, 5 euro per user per month 


https://www.timesheets.com/ - online timesheets, different people in control who can edit the timesheet, which employees can calculate hours and then every other employee can add their hours

/



What area does the product or service focus on?  A Market Segment or Niche?
An overlooked difficulty in any rostered job with flexible hours


What strategies do you use to compete in the market?  (Cost leader, Best price, Focused Differentiator)  




STEP 3 - Identify Weaknesses/Threats (Consider any potential issues that may jeopardize the venture)

Not having enough services as my competitors do, eg findmyshift offers a lot 	
People might not renew their membership after 3 months instead  of paying annually or monthly	





The Feasibility Study completed allows you to make an informed evaluation about the business idea.

•	Weight up the Pros and Cons of the product.  Is this a good business innovation?


